you already know that life has its ups
and downs
but those can get a little wacky too
take airline travel
the short hop leader among scheduled
commercial flights
remains the route of the scottish
airline logan
air it connects two islands westray
and papa west ray the distance of this
route is
less than two miles in good weather the
flight can take just
47 seconds if you have very good
eyesight then
from the airport of departure you can
see the airport of arrival
and even the friends meeting you these
two islands are part of the orkney
archipelago
wow is that from lord of the rings it
has over 70 islands
and there are no bridges between them so
orcs out there
travel by boat ferry or as in this case
by aeroplane it's designed for eight
passengers
and your seat neighbor won't even have
time to introduce themselves properly
you can just nod the flight's altitude
doesn't exceed 300 feet
so sitting by the window you can enjoy
the magnificent landscapes of scotland
just not for long jetting from one
country to another doesn't always mean
long packing and hours sitting at the
airport
the shortest international flight
belongs to austrian airlines
it connects saint gallon switzerland and
friedrichshafe in germany
the distance between them is only 13
miles the journey by car
at a maximum permitted speed of 55 miles
per hour
would take only 12 minutes but it's not
that simple
somebody put some mountains and a lake
between the two cities
so the trip would take you at least an
hour
in europe the flight between vienna
austria and bratislava slovakia
is the shortest between two capitals the
distance is about 32 miles
and the travel time is no more than 10
minutes after takeoff
austrian airline fly nikki launched this
route in 2015.
they plan to operate six flights a week
but the idea didn't catch on well among
passengers
land transport connection in this region
is highly developed
you only have to sit in a car train or
bus in bratislava
and in less than an hour you will enjoy
the vienna
opera or the most delicious strudel in
the world
oh now i'm hungry the shortest flight in
north america
is operated by the canadian greater
toronto airlines
it connects two cities in ontario
toronto and niagara falls
bring your own barrel you know in case
you want to ride the falls
anyway the distance is 35 miles and
travel time is 12 minutes
yeah sure you can go by car but the
distance will be doubled and the travel
time will be at least
one and a half hours or even longer
because of the traffic
the shortest beach flight belongs to the
cayman islands
which are the british overseas
territories in the caribbean sea
millions of tourists from all over the
world relax on the white beaches
and enjoy the exotic nature of these
islands
if you confuse your destination and
arrive at the little cayman island
and your hotel is on the cayman brack
island well
just buy a plane ticket and in 10
minutes your plane will land at the
right place
the distance between the two is only 13
miles
the shortest intercontinental flight is
operated by royal air mara
it connects tangier morocco and
gibraltar british overseas territory
the distance is 42 miles it actually
connects africa
and the iberian peninsula in europe here
at the border with spain
there is a piece of britain with its red
phone booths cabs and traditional food
and the rock of gibraltar is also home
to a bunch of apes
also british i guess who entertain the
tourists
this is the only place in the world
where the airstrip crosses the highway
when planes take off and land they block
the road and the cars let them pass
now i think i would too one of the
riskiest airfields with a short airstrip
is the airport of nepal if suddenly you
decide to conquer everest someday then
you will start an extreme adventure even
as your plane lands at nepal's lucla
airport
the airstrip has a slope of 12 percent
which allows the aircraft to take off or
land in a limited area after all the
length of the airstrip is only 1700 feet
and the width is only 65 feet for
comparison
the average runway length is one and a
quarter miles
but that's not all the airport is 1.8
miles above sea level
with a mountain on one side and a gorge
on the other
and the end of the airstrip almost bears
against the chasm
at this altitude the weather constantly
changes so flights are often delayed or
just canceled there is no artificial
lighting on the airstrip
there is no radar equipment there either
pilots carry out
all maneuvers manually planes have to
land at first try
because there's simply no space to turn
around and try again
flights are operated mostly early in the
morning when the calmest weather
conditions
no mist wind or clouds even the craziest
ride in disneyland would not be
the landing at lucla airport how about
the shortest distance between a plane
and your head let's move to the island
of st
martin and the main airport of the
caribbean islands
if you're sunbathing on maho beach get
ready to dock
huge airliners will fly over your head
at a distance of only 50 feet
they're trying to land the island is
quite small and so is the airstrip
it ends with water on both sides pilots
have to fly as low
as possible so that the landing gear
touches the airstrip faster
passengers of such flights remember
those landings for a long
time the viewers from the beach can take
incredible photos
and for pilots it is kind of a
qualification upgrade
one of the airports has the shortest
list of pilots allowed to land there
this is the only international airport
in paro in the kingdom of bhutan
the airport is literally surrounded by
the himalayan peaks
some of them reach 18 000 feet in high
to land the plane overcomes a narrow
gorge
and then begins to maneuver between the
mountains as close as possible
and after taking off pilots must fly the
plane
in a spiral to you know avoid crashing
into the mountains
the airport is high up as well so the
weather is unstable here
strong winds blow and form almost
constant turbulence
the flights are operated only by the
local airline
druck air and just eight pilots have
permission to take off and land here
this airport is the most dangerous in
the world hey
sign me up and what if one of the
longest flights becomes one of the
shortest ones
you can cover eight thousand five
hundred miles in just
thirty minutes you're in singapore your
vacation is coming to an end
and it's time to go home you arrive at
changji airport
go through passport control check in
your luggage and get on the plane
it's 8 am on november 5th the flight is
going great
you land in san francisco look at your
watch and it shows
8 30 on november 5. fiction
not at all thanks to the 15 hours
difference between singapore and san
francisco
the incredible becomes possible now as
far as the longest flights go
until recently the record among regular
flights was the singapore to new york
one
with a distance of about 9500 miles
estimated travel time 17 hours 50
minutes
just imagine during this time you will
be able to watch
seven movies of the harry potter saga
add to it your way home from the new
york airport
and it's the eighth movie to boot
however on march 14
2020 this record was broken by the
french airline
air tahiti nui the flight distance was
about 9
800 miles during the flight it was
supposed to depart from papiti tahiti
and arrive in paris on this route the
plane usually makes a stopover at the la
airport
where the plane is checked and refueled
while passengers go through all the
custom checks
but in 2020 the united states restricted
flights
and this stop became impossible the
plane spent
16 and a half hours in the air for such
a trip it was necessary to reduce the
number of passengers and luggage
in order to minimize the total weight of
the aircraft two pilots usually manage a
single flight
but in this case four were required the
hero plane is a boeing 787-9
a twin-engine dreamliner according to
the pilots
the tailwind helped a lot this flight is
an exception
the airline does not plan to set up such
risky experiments again
gee i wish it would i think it's just
fun to say
papiti tahiti tahiti well like that